Xml participant (#377)
eProsima/DDS-Router: docs/rst/user_manual/participants/xml.rst

.. include:: ../../exports/alias.include

.. _user_manual_participants_xml:

###############
XML Participant
###############

This type of :term:`Participant` refers to a :term:`DomainParticipant` that uses QoS profiles loaded from XML files to be configured.

|fastdds| supports XML to fully configure a DomainParticipant.
Using XML configuration, user have whole access to the full configuration of a DDS DomainParticipant.
Check following `documentation <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/xml_configuration/domainparticipant.html>` for further information about configuring a DDS DomainParticipant with XML.
For further information regarding how to load XML configuration files to |ddsrouter| check following section :ref:`user_manual_configuration_load_xml`.

.. note::

>     This kind of Participant is only meant for expert users.
>     Creating an XML configuration is not an easy task, and there is a high probability that messing with internal configurations of DDS makes DDS Router to not work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This kind of Participant is meant for advanced users as XML profiles will overwrite the default internal settings of the DDS Router. 
```

Use case
========

Use this Participant to fully configure a DomainParticipant, its discovery methods, transport options, DDS QoS, etc.
Main use case for this Participant is using **DDS Security**, that requires XML configuration from user side.

.. TODO

    Add link to security documentation

Kind aliases
============

* ``xml``
* ``XML``

Configuration
=============

XML Participant allows configure a profile name.
Such name will be used as QoS profile when creating the internal DomainParticipant.
Whole DomainParticipant configuration settings must be configured via XML, |ddsrouter| will not configure any attribute or QoS for it (that is why this participant is not advisable for non expert users).

* To configure the profile, check the following section
  :ref:`Configuration section <user_manual_configuration_profile>`.

Configuration Example
=====================

Configure a XML Participant that uses Initial Peers to communicate via WAN using TCP.

> It listens for clients in public IP ``82.0.0.1`` in port ``11600`` in ``TCP``.

Reviewer: Wrong description

.. code-block:: yaml

> 

Reviewer: Add this to the example

```yaml
xml:                                                              # 1
  files:
    - "./xml_configuration.xml"                                   # 2
  raw: |                                                          # 3
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
    <profiles xmlns="http://www.eprosima.com/XMLSchemas/fastRTPS_Profiles" >
        <participant profile_name="custom_participant_configuration">
            <domainId>1</domainId>
            <rtps></rtps>
        </participant>
    </profiles>
```

Author: This is the example of the Participant. The xml part is described in configuration, and it is linked before

    Add link to security documentation

.. warning::

    This Participant kind does not support :term:`RPC`.

>     Thus services and actions of ROS2 will not work correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Thus services and actions of ROS 2 will not work correctly.
```

Configuration
=============

XML Participant allows setting a profile name for the internal DomainParticipant of the |ddsrouter|.
Such name will be used as QoS profile when creating the internal DomainParticipant.

.. _user_manual_participants_xml_profiles:

Create a Fast DDS XML Participant profile
-----------------------------------------

> Whole DomainParticipant configuration settings must be configured via XML, |ddsrouter| will not configure any attribute or QoS for it (that is why this participant is not advisable for non expert users).

Reviewer: This was already said. 

```suggestion
Whole DomainParticipant configuration settings must be configured via XML, |ddsrouter| will not configure any attribute or QoS for it.
```

To configure the profile, check the following section: :ref:`Configuration section <user_manual_configuration_profile>`.

However, there are specific QoS that will affect the performance of the |ddsrouter| and that are advisable for the user to set them.
Notice that not setting such QoS will not affect the correct functionality of the application, but may affect its performance.

1. ``ignore_local_endpoints`` avoid local matching of this participant's endpoints:

.. code-block:: xml

        <participant profile_name="ignore_local_endpoints_domainparticipant_xml_profile">
            <rtps>
                <propertiesPolicy>
                    <properties>
                        <property>
                            <name>fastdds.ignore_local_endpoints</name>
                            <value>true</value>
                        </property>
                    </properties>
                </propertiesPolicy>
            </rtps>

>         </participant>

Reviewer: I'll add this to a troubleshooting section and put a warning here redirecting to that section.

Author: But this is not a bug or a problem, is just a performance issue

Reviewer: Then replace the numbered list with bullet points (`*`) and indent the code-block to be inside the list item.
